#summary How to Install the Variation toolkit
#labels documentation,install,make,build,makefile
<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />



==Dependencies==

  * *Samtools*: Utilities for post-processing alignments in the SAM format. [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19505943 pmid:19505943]
  * *Tabix*: fast retrieval of sequence features from generic TAB-delimited files. [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21208982 pmid:21208982]
  * *mysql-dev*: the files and libraries for mysql.
  * *libxml2*: the C library for xml [http://xmlsoft.org/ http://xmlsoft.org/].
  * *libxslt*: the C library for xslt [http://xmlsoft.org/XSLT/ http://xmlsoft.org/XSLT/].
  * *libcurl*: the C library for downloading URLs.
  * *jkentsrc*: (optional) Jim Kent's C library / Ucsc parsing bigbed, bigwig...
  * *sqlite3*: (optional) SQL database engine.



==Building==

Download the latest version of varkit using `subversion`:


{{{
svn checkout http://variationtoolkit.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ variationtoolkit-read-only
}}}


or update your current version by calling `svn update` in the  variationtoolkit folder.

{{{
svn update
}}}


==Edit the Config file.==

Edit the file variationtoolkit/config.mk . You'll have to set the path to the sources of tabix (>=0.2.5), samtools (>=-0.1.18), etc..

{{{
##path to SAMTOOLS
SAMDIR=${HOME}/samtools-0.1.18
##path to TABIX
TABIXDIR=/home/lindenb/tabix-0.2.5
##optional path to UCSC kent's src
KENTDIR=${HOME}/src/kent/kent
##optional path to google leveldb
LEVELDBDIR=${HOME}/tmp/leveldb-read-only
SQLITE_LIB=-lsqlite3
SQLITE_CFLAGS=
}}}


then type:

{{{

make
}}}

the binaries will be generated in the *bin/* folder.

==Compiling one program without dependencies==

If you don't want to install all the programs and just beed one program you can go in the `src` folder and ask for compiling the software. e.g:

{{{
cd src
make ../bin/fastatail
$ make ../bin/fasta2tsv
g++ -o ../bin/fasta2tsv fasta2tsv.cpp -O3 -Wall -lz
}}}




>g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>

